---
layout: page
title: "Testing FSD in 2026"
subtitle: A strange view from home
postdate: 4-Mar-2026
---
We've been debating another electric car, though we still like the Tesla. I decided to re-test FSD to see if that mattered to me when thinking about replacing the Tesla.

I subscribed in Feb, with the intention that we had a bunch of driving to do and I wanted to see how it performed on a few trips around Colorado. 

My first test was going to the gym. Look at the video below. FSD thinks my driveway, and private gravel road, [are 55 mph roads](https://youtu.be/-wlvk0tQKY8). I ended up cancelling it when it tried to get above 25mph.

The rest of the experience was really good and smooth. It's hard to remember my last test a few years ago, but it feels smoother.

## Highway Driving
The next day we had to head up to Greeley, about an 80 mile drive, mostly on the highway. We had to leave early, and we were trying to hurry to be there in time.

I set FSD for 85MPH max and let it take over. It started good, and easily switched lanes as people in front of me were slower.

However, it kept wanting to drift back to 79mph. I changed the profile to hurry, but it still kept slowing. I would press the accelerator to get it back up to 85, but it would slow again. I kept pressing the accelerator, but it was strange.

This was very different than previous experiences where it would go much faster than I liked.

I could adjust the max speed, which wasn't possible before. It did a good job of keeping below this, but in driving between towns, on the highway, and in city driving, it often would go much slower. Profiles didn't seem to help.

## Impressions
From using it on various trips, it worked well. I trusted it more, but I found I didn't love it. Especially when I didn't have specific destinations, or we decided to stop somewhere. Adjusting FSD or adding a stop is a hassle.

Plus, for the driver, even trying to type in a place would cause a warning that I needed to pay attention.

I think FSD works well, but it doesn't suite my lifestyle, and wouldn't be a decision point for me in a new car.

Back to the [main Tesla Experience page](/projects/tesla/theteslaexperience/)
